>> Brian Holt: Now that we have all
of our HTML kind of in place here,
let's go write the JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna create a new
JavaScript file, let's call it something,
gallery.js or something like that,
whatever you want to call it.
And then the first thing we need to do
here at the bottom of the index.HTML,
we're going to load the JavaScript.
So we're gonna put script underneath,
inside of the body,
underneath the last HTML part, put script.
>> Brian Holt: Source
equals.slash gallery.
>> Brian Holt: Or
just gallery without it, either way.
>> Brian Holt: Now you
may ask the question,
why am I putting this
the last thing on the page?
Why don't we put it in the head or
anything like that?
Well, the way that the browser works is,
it is going to download your HTML and
the browser gonna start reading it line
by line, and it's going to hit this link,
it's going to pause doing
everything with the HTML.
It's going to wait to download that CSS,
apply all that CSS.
And then it will continue going down.
In general, this is a good idea with CSS,
because you want your
things to show up styled.
If I put this at the end of the document,
it's gonna show up all garbage looking,
and then it's gonna apply the CSS.
So it's good with CSS to put in the head.
However, when it rise to
this script tag right here,
it's going to download the JavaScript.
Well, it's gonna pause the HTML,
parsing and applying,
it's going to download the JavaScript,
it's going to parse the JavaScript,
and then it's gonna
execute the JavaScript.
Might imagine,
that's a decently slow process.
So you don't want to prevent the user
from seeing things on the page.
So that's why we put it
all the way at the bottom.
>> Brian Holt: Another advantage of
putting it down here at the bottom.
Let's say I just put it here,
for some dumb reason.
If inside of this gallery.js, I tried
to refer to this div, the class buttons
right there, I would not be able to,
because this hasn't been created yet,
because this is being downloaded and
executed here, right?
So that's why I have to put it down here,
so
that way everything above is guaranteed
to exist by the time this gets run.
Make sense?
So, that's a long explanation for.
What I'm trying to tell you is,
that always put your JavaScript
at the bottom, always.
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's go to our gallery.js.
So, what we wanna do is,
anytime someone clicks Next,
we want to take away the active
class from this picture, and
we want to apply the active
class to the next picture.
So let's go ahead and go down here.
I'm gonna pull out the previous button, so
const prev button equals documents,
that Elements by,
let's do query selector,
query selector.prev, like that,
right, and would do the same thing for
next button.
So next button.
>> Brian Holt: Let's just make this vtm,
because I'm lazy and
I don't wanna type that much.
Next.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So we're going
to add event listeners to this,
we're going to prevBtn.addEventListener.
On click.
I'm gonna run some sort of function her,
right?
>> Brian Holt: Same
thing with next button.
So let's just focus on next button first,
and
then we'll come back to previous button.
>> Brian Holt: So next button,
let's say, we'll come back to you.